---
title: Are Mac Apps overpriced?
date: '2016-02-01 00:00:00'
layout: post
---
Having recently migrated from using Windows as my default operating system of choice to Mac OS X I have to ask a simple question. Are Mac apps in the App Store over priced? One of the first things I set about doing after getting my MacBook setup was to download the Mac versions of many of the Apps that I use on my iPhone. I expected to pay more for a Mac App than I would for the iPhone equivalent but I wasn't prepared for the shock when I saw just how much more expensive year apps actually are. 

The first app on my list was Things, a beautifully designed to-do and task management app the I've used on my iPhone for a number of years. I paid about £7 for this iPhone app which is quite expensive when compared to other apps but I felt it was a good investment as the app really is very well made. I set about looking for the things app on the Mac App Store expecting to pay maybe £14-£20 for the app. I was horrified to see that it would cost me £39 to download the Mac version. As I've already said its a great app but it certainly isn't worth £39 so I decided against buying it and migrated to Wunderlist which seems to not only be better but it's also available on both devices free of charge. 

I won't go into to all of the apps that I noticed this with but it's safe to assume that this was not an isolated incident. In most cases the Mac equivalent of most of my iPhone apps cost upwards of 4-6x the price of the iPhone counterpart. Don't get me wrong there are occasions where this model works a good example being Pixelmator which is just £3.99 for iPhone and £25+ on the Mac but it's justified as its a fully blown desktop photoshop alternative not just a shitty to-do list app. Although I don't condone it in anyway you have to understand that piracy exists largely because of things like this. If developers charges reasonable prices then I'm sure piracy would decrease considerably. For proof of that just look at what iTunes did when it launched making music easily available and at a reasonable price. No longer did you have to go into HMV and pay £2.99 for a chart single as iTunes sold them at £0.79p. 

As a developer myself I sympathise that a lot of hard work an time goes into building a decent app but that doesn't justify some of the outrageous prices I've seen of late. It's almost like some developers see it as an entitlement to charge top dollar for an app because it's for an Apple device especially Macs. Although Android doesn't have desktop apps you only have to look at the pricing differences between the two platforms to see the huge difference. Android are likely to be opening up to the desktop eventually by way of merging with ChromeOS and it will be interesting to see how pricing for these apps compare with Mac Apps. 

What are your thoughts on this? Do you agree that Mac Apps are over priced in the App Store? We'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments section below. 